Swift Enchantment of the Three Realms
A Sādhana of Red Tārā
by Jamyang Khyentse Chökyi Lodrö

Namaḥ tārā-bhaṭṭarakāya!
For the means of accomplishing Red Tāra, the sādhana Swift Enchantment of the Three Realms,
it is necessary to receive permission and uphold the vows and commitments. Sit on a comfortable
seat, visualize the sources of refuge in the space in front, and recite:
dak sok dro kün changchub bar
I and all other beings take refuge in the Three Jewels
könchok sum la kyab su chi
From now until the attainment of awakening.
dro la penpa drubpé chir
In order to bring benefit to beings,
drolma marmo gompar gyi
I shall meditate on Red Tārā.
Repeat this as many times as possible. Then:
semchen deden dukngal dral
May sentient beings be happy, free from suffering,
dé tob tangnyom la né shok
And having found happiness, abide in equanimity.
Purify with oṃ svabhāva… etc.
tongpé ngang lé bam yik dang
Out of emptiness appears a syllable Vaṃ,
pema marpö zé'u drü teng
And upon the bed of a red lotus,
ah lé dawé den tengdu
From āḥ, upon a moon disc seat,
utpal marpo hrih mar tsen
Appears a red utpala marked with a red hrīḥ.
ö trö pak chö dikdrib jang
Light radiates out, makes offerings to the noble ones, purifies wrongdoing and obscurations,
tsur dü rangnyi drolma mar
And as it returns I become Red Tārā,
shyal chik chak nyi chen sum ma
With a single face, two hands and three eyes.
chak yé chakkyu yön shyakpa
She holds a hook in her right hand and lasso in her left,
chudruk lönpé natsö chen
And has the youth of a sixteen year-old girl.
dar dang rinchen gyen gyi gyen
She is adorned with silk and jewel ornaments
sempé kyilmo trung gi shyuk
And sits in the cross-legged posture of a bodhisattva.
né sum om ah hung nam dang
At her three centres are the syllables oṃ āḥ hūṃ
tukkar hrih yik marpo lé
And at her heart is red syllable hrīḥ,
ö trö yeshepa chendrang
From which light radiates out to invite the wisdom beings,
dza hung bam ho yermé tim
Who merge indivisibly through jaḥ, hūṃ, baṃ and ho.
ö trö wanglha dün khar shyuk
Light radiates and the empowerment deities remain before me in the sky.
wangkur drib dak rik kyi dak
They confer empowerment and purify obscurations.
öpakmé pé ur gyen gyur
Amitābha, lord of the family, adorns my crown.
Focus single-pointedly on the clear appearance of the deity.
When you grow tired, continue with the recitation:
tukkar utpal marpö teng
At her heart, upon a red utpala,
dawa la né hrih mar tar
Is a moon disc and a red hrīḥ,
ngak treng khadok marpö kor
Surrounded by the mantra garland, red in colour.
ö trö gyalwa sé ché kyi
It radiates light, which attracts
jinlab tamché wang du jé
All the blessings of the victorious ones and their heirs.
kham sum kyendro tamché dang
All living beings throughout the three realms
gang dö paljor ö mar gyi
And whatever magnificent riches I desire
nampar dü né ngak treng la
Are drawn towards me in the form of red light
timpé wang du jepar gyur
And, being absorbed, brought under my control.
om taré tuttaré turé sam taré tara ni hrih soha
oṃ tāre tuttāre ture saṃtāre tāraṇi hrīḥ svāhā
Recite this as many times as possible. At the point of concluding the session focus on the wisdom
being in the sky before you and recite:
om arya taré sapariwara om benza pupé ah hung
oṃ ārya tāre sapārivara oṃ vajra puṣpe āḥ hūṃ
Until:
shabda
Śabda
Offer praise with “The devas and all other beings bow down and touch their crowns at your lotus
feet...”1Then recite:
drolmé dak sok semchen gyi
Tārā, for me and all sentient beings,
nang sem wang du düpar dzö
Bring appearances and mind under our control.
yeshepa nam ying su shek
Let the wisdom deities depart for basic space.
rang gi né sum om ah hung
My three centres are marked by oṃ, āḥ and hūṃ—
kar mar ting gé tsenpar gyur
White, red, and blue in colour.
Recite this and then dedicate the virtue.

In response to a request from Wangmo and Drönma, noble daughters of the Lakar family of great
benefactors of the teachings,2 who expressed a need for just such a text, Chökyi Lodrö compiled
this from the speech of past masters. Bhavatu. Virtue! Virtue! Virtue!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey with the generous support of the Khyentse Foundation and Tertön
Sogyal Trust, 2020.

Source: ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros. "sgrol ma dmar mo'i sgrub thabs khams gsum myur 'gugs/"
in ’Jam dbyangs chos kyi blo gros kyi gsung ’bum. 12 vols. Bir: Khyentse Labrang, 2012.
W1KG12986 Vol. 7: 279–280
↑ lha dang lha min cod pan gyis / zhabs kyi pad+mo la btud de/ phongs pa kun las sgrol mdzad
ma / sgrol ma yum la phyag 'tshal bstod / ↑ I.e., Mayum Tsering Wangmo and Khandro Tsering
Damchö Drönma (Tsering Chödrön for short) (1929–2011).